hello everyone welcome to Dedes
Mediterranean kitchen today we're going
to be making falafel those wonderful
fried patties made of chick peas and
fava beans they make a great vegetarian
sandwich and today I'm going to show you
how to make it the first ingredients
we're going to use our dry chickpeas and
dried fava beans we're going to soak
them overnight in water to the brim and
then the next morning we're going to
pour off the water when we assemble the
falafel next we have cilantro and
parsley you're going to need about a cup
to a cup and a half of cilantro fresh
cilantro as always and about a half cup
of fresh parsley you're also going to
need one large onion you can use yellow
onion or white onion either one we're
also going to need about 8 cloves of
garlic about 2 tablespoons of ground
coriander a tablespoon of ground cumin
half teaspoon of ground cayenne pepper
half cup of bread crumbs two to three
tablespoons of flour some salt a
teaspoon of baking soda and a half
teaspoon of baking powder you want to
start by first blending the chickpeas in
a good food processor you don't want to
use canned chickpeas or canned fava
beans because they have too much
moisture and too many preservatives it's
best to just use the soaking process
overnight we're going to blend these
until they're a fine crumbly mixture
now after you're done
grinding them up you want to put empty
them into a bowl we're gonna do the same
things with the fava beans and then
blend them until they're nice and
crumbly we're also going to input these
into the same Bowl after we do this step
we're going to add the cilantro the
parsley and the onion to the blender and
process that until it's a nice paste
about halfway through we're gonna add
one of the most important ingredients
garlic I know you all love garlic and
then just continue to blend after we're
done blending we're gonna add to the
other ingredients you should smell this
it smells amazing
this cilantro and parsley garlic onion
what better is there than that at this
point we want to mix it until it's very
well combined falafel was actually
traditionally made with just fava beans
as it moved north along the
Mediterranean people started to
incorporate chickpeas into it some
people make it with just chickpeas some
people make it with just fava beans
there's a lot of little variations to
the dish but the main ingredients are
the chickpeas and the fava beans falafel
is also a very healthy dish if you don't
fry it you can also bake it but many
people just fry it up it has a lot of
protein and a lot of fiber after we've
combined the ingredients we're going to
add all the seasoning start with the
coriander the cumin
the cane pepper you don't like it spicy
you don't have to add the cayenne pepper
when you add the breadcrumbs and salt
we're gonna add two teaspoons salt
actually let's do three some people like
it really salty some people don't like
it they're salty it all depends on how
you like it and then we're going to mix
this up really well after we add all the
seasoning we want to check the dough's
consistency this is a lot like a dough
and if you see that it's too crumbly
what you can do as a fix-it is to add
some flour I like to add two to three
tablespoons of flour you don't want to
add too much because you don't want it
to be too doughy and then it'll stay raw
in the middle when you fry it so just
mix it up again after you add the flour
and you're done mixing it you can
actually freeze it falafel can actually
freeze for up to a month but you want to
freeze it before you add the baking soda
or the baking powder so just like that
we're going to add our baking soda and
our baking powder and then we're going
to let it sit for about 10 to 15 minutes
so that those ingredients activate all
together and you get a nice fluffy
falafel so the baking powder and the
baking soda
and just mix it all up
while the falafel is sitting and you're
waiting for it you want to pre-heat a
two to three inch deep frying pan just a
regular frying pan and you want to add
to it about it inch and a half of just
regular vegetable oil I know it's not
that healthy but falafel is a great
indulgence and makes a great sandwich
falafel mixture has been sitting for 15
minutes now it's time to fry the falafel
there's two different ways you can mold
the falafel when you fry them you can
use a falafel Boulder or you can use two
spoons now I know this is not readily
available everywhere so you can just use
two spoons I'll show you both ways so
we're just going to get a spoonful of
this and you just want to mold it up so
it's a nice little fall just like that
and be careful when you're frying it you
don't want to burn yourself have the oil
on medium heat and just slowly drop it
in and continue until you have about ten
of them in the frying pan
now you want to let them cook until
they're about medium golden brown you
don't want some too dark and you want to
make sure that the oil is on medium low
heat because otherwise they'll be nice
and dark on the outside but they'll be
raw on the inside so you definitely
don't want that you want to turn them
over just to make sure that they're not
sticking look at that color
see how nice that color is right in
there for just a few more seconds see
the falafel they smell amazing
what am i lay them on a paper towel so
that it absorbs all the excess oil now
you want to fry the falafel right before
you serve them if you fry them too far
in advance they end up getting really
doughy and they end up getting really
soft falafel is known to be fluffy
that's what the word means so you want
to make sure they're crunchy on the
outside and fluffy on the inside now if
you're going to use a falafel mold what
you're going to do is you want to pull
it down
and then just fill it with a falafel
mixture just you can use a spatula just
like that and then you want to drop it
in to the oil it needs a little help to
keep your hand low so you don't splash
now we're done frying up our falafel I'm
going to put our great sandwich together
snap you're trying to stay away from the
carbs that's okay you don't have to put
it into a sandwich
you can just eat it with this great
tahini sauce it's really easy to make
it's just some teeny olive oil water
garlic mix it all up and it makes a
great sauce or you can serve it with
garlic sauce I know you all love that
garlic so what I do is I have a knife
locust ketta and I'm going to put some
of the tahini sauce just like that you
can add any vegetables you want to the
sandwich I like to add a lot of tomatoes
to my sandwich I also like to add Kebede
which are these wonderful pickled
turnips
and then some lettuce and I'm gonna add
a little bit of the garlic sauce just
because you can never get enough garlic
I like to add a lot of garlic sauce you
don't like garlic you don't have to well
who doesn't like garlic it's amazing
next you want to get your falafel patty
and place it in the sandwich now
traditionally they actually mush the
falafel patty when they add it so that's
what we're gonna do is just break it up
just like that but I want to show you
what it looks like look at that look at
how nice and green the falafel is it's
nice and fluffy and you can see that the
inside is not raw or doughy anymore it's
perfect
put that down we're gonna roll up our
sandwich just like they do with the
falafel sand roll it nice and tight and
I like to use aluminum foil to wrap the
sandwich to make it look like just the
way you buy it when you're at the
restaurant
if the sandwich made for a king thank
you for joining me on this episode of
Judy's Mediterranean kitchen remember
you can get all my recipes at cbn.com
and I'll see you again
you